# Creating a Lambda Function Using the AWS Console

## Introduction

In this hands-on lab scenario, you'll write a Node.js Lambda function that checks a URL (like www.amazon.com) and returns the status code that signifies if the website is up and running or down. During this lab, you'll have the opportunity to explore the Lambda console, function code, execution roles, test events, and execution results. AWS Lambda allows you to write concise functions and only worry about your code. Since Lambda is serverless, AWS manages the underlying infrastructure for you.

## Solution

Log in to the live AWS environment using the provided credentials. Make sure you are in `us-east-1` when you work in this environment.

In a new browser tab, navigate to the code you'll need for the lab: https://github.com/linuxacademy/content-aws-ccp-labs/blob/master/creating-a-lambda-function-using-the-aws-console/index.js

### Author Node.js Lambda Function in AWS Console

- In the AWS console, navigate to **Lambda** > **Functions**.
- Click **Create function**.
- Select **Author from scratch**.
- Set the following values:
  - Function name: **holURLChecker**
  - Runtime: **Node.js**
- Expand **Change default execution role**.
- For Execution role, select **Create a new role with basic Lambda permissions**.
- Click **Create function**.
- In the GitHub tab, copy the `index.js` code.
- On the Lambda function page, delete the existing code in the Function code box and paste the `index.js` code you just copied.
- Click **Deploy**.

### Test Function Using a Test Event

- Click **Test** in the upper right.
- For Event template, enter "mytestEvent".
- Leave the other default values.
- Click **Create**.
- Click **Test** again.
- Review the output response.
  - It should be `200`, which means the website is up and running.

### View Lambda's CloudWatch Logs

- Click the **Monitoring** tab.
- Click **View logs in CloudWatch**.
- Click on the most recent log stream in the Log streams section.
- Notice the billed duration.

## Conclusion

Congratulations on successfully completing this hands-on lab!
